OSSM-10522 Docs for External Kiali deployment model (#105846)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-installing-kiali-operator-on-remote-clusters.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/kiali/ossm-kiali.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-installing-kiali-operator-on-remote-clusters_{context}"]
= Installing Kiali Operator on remote clusters

[role="_abstract"]

In an external deployment, you must install the Kiali Operator on all clusters, including those where Kiali is not deployed, to ensure the creation of required namespaces and remote cluster resources.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the {ocp-product-title} web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

* You have installed the {KialiProduct} on each cluster.

* You have {istio} installed in a multi-cluster configuration on each cluster.

* You have configured a metrics store so that Kiali can query metrics from all the clusters. Kiali queries metrics and traces from their endpoints.

* You have the necessary secrets for Kiali to access remote clusters.

* You have set the `clustering.ignore_home_cluster` field to `true` in the `Kiali` custom reource (CR).

> * You have given a unique cluster name for the Kiali home cluster in `.spec.kubernetes_config.cluster_name` specification. In an external deployment, you must manually set this name because no colocated {istio} control plane exists to provide it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have given a unique cluster name for the Kiali home cluster in `.spec.kubernetes_config.cluster_name` specification. In an external deployment, you must manually set this name because there is no colocated {istio} control plane to provide it.
```

.Procedure

. Deploy the Kiali Operator on all clusters using the procedure link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_service_mesh/latest/html/installing/ossm-multi-cluster-topologies#ossm-installing-kiali-multi-cluster-mesh_ossm-multi-cluster-topologies[Installing Kiali in a multi-cluster mesh].

> . For clusters where Kiali is not deployed, configure the `Kiali` CR to create only the remote cluster resources by setting `the spec.deployment.remote_cluster_resources_only` field to `true`.

Reviewer 2: Could we possibly add an example yaml here?

Author: It woukd be repetitive as it is mentioned in the link provided in the first step. But I have still added the example in here. :)

. Ensure the Kiali namespace and instance name are consistent across all clusters. If you change the default namespace (`istio-system`) or instance name (`kiali`), you must apply the same values to the following CR settings on every cluster:
* `spec.deployment.namespace`

> * `spec.deployment.instance_name`

Reviewer 2: I would specify here what CRs we are talking about: I would guess the `Kiali` CR, but I would mention it to not leave room for ambiguity.

> * `spec.deployment.instance_name`

Reviewer 2: Could we again possibly add an example yaml here?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/kiali/ossm-kiali.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-installing-kiali-operator-on-remote-clusters_{context}"]
= Installing Kiali Operator on remote clusters

[role="_abstract"]

In an external deployment, you must install the Kiali Operator on all clusters, including those where Kiali is not deployed, to ensure the creation of required namespaces and remote cluster resources.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the {ocp-product-title} web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

* You have installed the {KialiProduct} on each cluster.

* You have {istio} installed in a multi-cluster configuration on each cluster.

* You have `istioctl` installed on the laptop you can use to run these instructions.

* You have configured a metrics store so that Kiali can query metrics from all the clusters. Kiali queries metrics and traces from their endpoints.

* You have the necessary secrets for Kiali to access remote clusters.

* You have set the `clustering.ignore_home_cluster` to `true` in the `Kiali` custom reource (CR).

> * You have a unique cluster name for the Kiali home cluster. In an external deployment, you must manually set this name because no colocated {istio} control plane exists to provide it.

Author: I have updated the prereqs accordingly. Thanks for pointing this out. :)
